The following components are required to complete this project:

Hardware:

Raspberry Pi Model 3B+ or newer (you can also use other devices capable of running Apache and php)

Raspberry Pi power supply

  Make sure that your power supply is a good match to the model of Raspberry Pi that you are using.  The Raspberry Pi 4 uses a 
  5.1V 3Amp supply with a USB-C male connector.  Raspberry Pi 3B+ and below use power supplies with micro-usb male connectors on
  them.

Raspberry Pi case

Micro SD card

  It is important to note that the SD card is a bottleneck for the Raspberry Pi.  I suggest that you buy
  the fastest card in a given memory size in terms of throughput.  Medium sized cards, such as the Samsung 32GB Evo Plus MicroSD Card 
  are a good value and work well with Raspberry Pi computers.
  
HDMI Monitor

USB keyboard/mouse

Network patch cable (to connect Raspberry Pi to Niles GXR2)

Network capable computer to download Raspbian software and install it on Micro SD card

SD memory card adapter for computer (some computers have integrated SD slots, or a USB adapter can be used)
  
A properly functioning pre-programmed Niles GXR2 system unit with at least one input card installed

A device that has a web browser and is on the same local network as the Raspberry Pi wireless connection

Software:

Raspbian Buster operating system

Files from this repository

Network access:

You will require wireless access to a local area network that has high speed Internet access.  this is required for downloading and installing 
software, and for other users to locally access the web site on the Raspberry Pi.

Main steps to complete the project:

1.  Insert the SD card into the computer.

2.  Download and install the latest version of the Raspberry Pi Imager from the raspberrypi.org site. 

3.  Using the Raspberry Pi imager, install raspbian buster on the Micro SD card.
    
      When you're doing this step, it is a good idea to review the latest installation procedures on the
      Raspberry Pi Web Site.  They describe the process in detail.
    
4.  Insert the SD card into the Raspberry Pi and then apply power.
5.  Complete the post install configuration and reboot the Raspberry Pi.
6.  Enable the wireless network on the Raspberry Pi.
7.  Open a console and install apache and php using the following commands:

            sudo apt-get install apache2 -y
            sudo apt-get install php -y
            
8.  Download all of the files from this repository to the Raspberry Pi.

      To download files, navigate to https://github.com/jrrussell750/Raspberry-Pi-as-Niles-Controller.  Click on the green
      Code button and then select "Download ZIP" from the menu that displays.  When the zip file is fully downloaded, unzip 
      it directly into your /home/pi directory.  Open a terminal session and enter the following commands:
      
            sudo mv /home/pi/*.php /var/www/html/
            sudo mv /home/pi/index.html /var/www/html/index.html
            
      That will move the html and php files to the correct directory.
      
9.  Create a file in the /home/pi directory called GXR2status.txt.  You can use the following command to create it:

            sudo nano GXR2status.txt
            
     The contents of the file should be a column of 12 zeroes, each one followed by a new line character.  
     It should look like this:
     
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
     0
          
     Set the owner and group on this file to pi using the following command:
    
            sudo chown pi:pi GXR2status.txt
            
     This file will contain the status and volume level for each zone.


10.  Compile the getstatus.cpp file and run it in its own terminal session using the following commands:
       
            g++ getstatus.cpp
            ./a.out

        Note:  The purpose of this program is to capture status information from the Niles GXR2.  The status information is used to indicate which
        device is selected for a particular zone and what the volume level is for each zone.  If you don't care what device is selected or what the 
        volume level is, and you don't have any need for the prev or next buttons, you can run the web server without it.  Also, you can terminate 
        the program at any time by closing the terminal session or by using the following key combination (press both keys on your keyboard at the 
        same time.)
       
            <Ctrl> c           


11.  Using the network patch cable connect the Raspberry Pi to the expansion port on the back of the Niles GXR2.

     Please use caution here.  You need to plug the network connection from the Raspberry Pi into the connector labeled EXPANSION.  The other 12 RJ45 
     female connectors are for Niles controllers, and they have have 12 volts on pins 7 and 8.  Therefore, it is not a good idea to plug anything but 
     Niles controllers into those connectors.  In addition pins 4 and 5 on those connectors are used for infrared connections, so they are anything 
     but standard ethernet connections.  

12.  Use the ifconfig command to verify that the Niles GXR2 DHCP server has given the wired connection an IP
     address.  Also, record the IP address of the wireless connection.
    
13. Type the IP address into the address window on a web browser on a network capable device that is part of your 
    local area network(for example, if your IP is 192.168.0.100, you would type http://192.168.0.100 in the address 
    text box at the top of the browser.)
    
    Note:  If you are using the browser on the same Raspberry Pi as the apache server, make sure you use the IP address 
    to access the web site and not the localhost name.  This code uses session variables, and localhost will start 
    one session.  As soon as you switch from the zone display to a controller screen, the php code automatically grabs the 
    actual IP address and uses it for future navigation.  This causes the browser to start a separate session with different 
    variables, causing the zone information from the original session to get lost.  You'll be able to tell if this is 
    happening because the zone name won't appear at the top of your controller screen.
    
14. Navigate by clicking on the buttons on the displays that are provided by the Raspberry Pi.
